The late 90s early aughts...It wasn’t exactly
the best time to be a trans woman in the queer
women’s community.
So, I was a little worried about some people
not being accepting.
I had expected to go do my shift and then
leave and not to enjoy myself.
And after my shift, I actually had fun.
The organizing committee, they were all very
welcoming.
They made me feel like it was no big deal.
I still, obviously, had all my own internalized
stuff, but coming from the organizing committee,
it was quite welcoming.
My understanding of the event was that it
was very explicitly welcoming.
Inclusivity was not only said but meant.
I don’t think it was, like, lip service.
That being said, I mean, I have to qualify
that, like, my body was acceptable there.
So, I don’t know.
Yeah, and again, I think I mentioned earlier,
I was coming from being a worker at
Michigan [Womyn’s Music Festival],
where there was a lot of constant
battles around trans women
being accepted there, and stuff like that.
And, I mean, I’m on the side of trans women
are women, obviously, so...
I listened to, like, all of those bands.
Like, Bikini Kill, Le Tigre.
All of those fucking bands, I loved them.
And, like, the idea of going to the [Michigan
Womyn’s Music] Festival was one of those
things that I just was aspiring to,
and then finding out,
nope, nope, nope, you’re not allowed.
That was devastating.
But then realizing as you have those conversations
with the queer women in your life, and them
actually defending that kind of decision,
suggesting that they thought that there was
a distinction between a “trans woman”
and a “real woman.”
That kind of breaks your heart.
Because suddenly it comes
hitting home fairly hard.
I mean, at the first Pussy Palace and I believe
at the second, it was not uncommon to hear
women commenting on the presence of trans
women, myself included, in that space.
Asking, “Who let the boys in?”
You know, raising questions about — not
necessarily directly to me but in a way that
would very obviously be overheard — that
was about making plain that trans women were
not welcome in the space.
You had very, very femme-presenting folk,
and then you had very
masculine-presenting folks.
There were some trans guys there, more than
a few, but almost no trans women.
Like, almost none.
Like, I can’t remember running into any
trans women.
In that respect, I felt a bit alone.
I knew a fair number of genderqueer and transmasculine,
female-assigned persons who seemed to be navigating
the space with a certain amount of grace.
But I saw a lot of trans women hanging out
by themselves.
Or hanging out in pairs, in small groups,
but not interacting with either transmasculine
or cis patrons in that space.
So, I felt like the sense of isolation I had
was not uncommon.
At previous Pussy Palaces, I’d felt a combination
of invisibility and hyper-visibility.
Sexual invisibility.
Hyper-visibility in terms of being a body
to be commented upon or to be scrutinized
and then dismissed.
I’d been in queer women’s spaces, like,
kink spaces, play parties before.
But a bar or a dungeon is so organized around
scenes, and they tend to be darker spaces,
and so I think in some ways one at the very
least is not attracting negative attention
through one’s presence.
Whereas I think I felt quite exposed
in the bathhouse space,
just by virtue of being visibly trans.